docs/skopeo-delete.1.md, before:

% skopeo-delete(1)

## NAME
skopeo\-delete - Mark the _image-name_ for later deletion by the registry's garbage collector.

## SYNOPSIS
**skopeo delete** [*options*] _image-name_

## DESCRIPTION

Mark _image-name_ for deletion.
The effect of this is registry-specific; many registries don’t support this operation, or don’t allow it in some circumstances / configurations.

**WARNING**: If _image-name_ contains a digest, this affects the referenced manifest, and may delete all tags (within the current repository?) pointing to that manifest.

**WARNING**: If _image-name_ contains a tag (but not a digest), in the current version of Skopeo this resolves the tag into a digest, and then deletes the manifest by digest, as described above (possibly deleting all tags pointing to that manifest, not just the provided tag). This behavior may change in the future.


When using the github.com/distribution/distribution registry server:
To release the allocated disk space, you must login to the container registry server and execute the container registry garbage collector. E.g.,

```
/usr/bin/registry garbage-collect /etc/docker-distribution/registry/config.yml
```
Note: sometimes the config.yml is stored in /etc/docker/registry/config.yml

If you are running the container registry inside of a container you would execute something like:
```
$ docker exec -it registry /usr/bin/registry garbage-collect /etc/docker-distribution/registry/config.yml
```

## OPTIONS

See also [skopeo(1)](skopeo.1.md) for options placed before the subcommand name.

**--authfile** _path_

Path of the authentication file. Default is ${XDG_RUNTIME\_DIR}/containers/auth.json, which is set using `skopeo login`.
If the authorization state is not found there, $HOME/.docker/config.json is checked, which is set using `docker login`.

**--creds** _username[:password]_

Credentials for accessing the registry.

**--cert-dir** _path_

Use certificates at _path_ (*.crt, *.cert, *.key) to connect to the registry.

**--daemon-host** _host_

Use docker daemon host at _host_ (`docker-daemon:` transport only)

**--help**, **-h**

Print usage statement

**--no-creds**

Access the registry anonymously.

Additionally, the registry must allow deletions by setting `REGISTRY_STORAGE_DELETE_ENABLED=true` for the registry daemon.

**--registry-token** _token_

Bearer token for accessing the registry.

**--retry-times**

The number of times to retry.

**--retry-delay**

Fixed delay between retries. If not set (or set to 0s), retry wait time will be exponentially increased based on the number of failed attempts.

**--shared-blob-dir** _directory_

Directory to use to share blobs across OCI repositories.

**--tls-verify**=_bool_

Require HTTPS and verify certificates when talking to the container registry or daemon. Default to registry.conf setting.

**--username**

The username to access the registry.

**--password**

The password to access the registry.

## EXAMPLES

Mark image example/pause for deletion from the registry.example.com registry:
```console
$ skopeo delete docker://registry.example.com/example/pause:latest
```
See above for additional details on using the command **delete**.


## SEE ALSO
skopeo(1), skopeo-login(1), docker-login(1), containers-auth.json(5)

## AUTHORS

Antonio Murdaca <runcom@redhat.com>, Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>, Jhon Honce <jhonce@redhat.com>

Commit message:

Improve documentation of --authfile
- Don't claim that Windows uses XDG_RUNTIME_DIR, defer to the authoritative
  man page.
- Consistently document the (regrettable?) REGISTRY_AUTH_FILE environment
  variable.
- Consistently refer to "registry credentials file", not "authentication file".
- (Also deemphasizes (docker login), I'm not sure we want that.)

Signed-off-by: Miloslav Trmač <mitr@redhat.com>

docs/skopeo-delete.1.md, after:

% skopeo-delete(1)

## NAME
skopeo\-delete - Mark the _image-name_ for later deletion by the registry's garbage collector.

## SYNOPSIS
**skopeo delete** [*options*] _image-name_

## DESCRIPTION

Mark _image-name_ for deletion.
The effect of this is registry-specific; many registries don’t support this operation, or don’t allow it in some circumstances / configurations.

**WARNING**: If _image-name_ contains a digest, this affects the referenced manifest, and may delete all tags (within the current repository?) pointing to that manifest.

**WARNING**: If _image-name_ contains a tag (but not a digest), in the current version of Skopeo this resolves the tag into a digest, and then deletes the manifest by digest, as described above (possibly deleting all tags pointing to that manifest, not just the provided tag). This behavior may change in the future.


When using the github.com/distribution/distribution registry server:
To release the allocated disk space, you must login to the container registry server and execute the container registry garbage collector. E.g.,

```
/usr/bin/registry garbage-collect /etc/docker-distribution/registry/config.yml
```
Note: sometimes the config.yml is stored in /etc/docker/registry/config.yml

If you are running the container registry inside of a container you would execute something like:
```
$ docker exec -it registry /usr/bin/registry garbage-collect /etc/docker-distribution/registry/config.yml
```

## OPTIONS

See also [skopeo(1)](skopeo.1.md) for options placed before the subcommand name.

**--authfile** _path_

Path of the primary registry credentials file. On Linux, the default is ${XDG\_RUNTIME\_DIR}/containers/auth.json.
See **containers-auth.json**(5) for more details about the credential search mechanism and defaults on other platforms.

Use `skopeo login` to manage the credentials.

The default value of this option is read from the `REGISTRY\_AUTH\_FILE` environment variable.

**--creds** _username[:password]_

Credentials for accessing the registry.

**--cert-dir** _path_

Use certificates at _path_ (*.crt, *.cert, *.key) to connect to the registry.

**--daemon-host** _host_

Use docker daemon host at _host_ (`docker-daemon:` transport only)

**--help**, **-h**

Print usage statement

**--no-creds**

Access the registry anonymously.

Additionally, the registry must allow deletions by setting `REGISTRY_STORAGE_DELETE_ENABLED=true` for the registry daemon.

**--registry-token** _token_

Bearer token for accessing the registry.

**--retry-times**

The number of times to retry.

**--retry-delay**

Fixed delay between retries. If not set (or set to 0s), retry wait time will be exponentially increased based on the number of failed attempts.

**--shared-blob-dir** _directory_

Directory to use to share blobs across OCI repositories.

**--tls-verify**=_bool_

Require HTTPS and verify certificates when talking to the container registry or daemon. Default to registry.conf setting.

**--username**

The username to access the registry.

**--password**

The password to access the registry.

## EXAMPLES

Mark image example/pause for deletion from the registry.example.com registry:
```console
$ skopeo delete docker://registry.example.com/example/pause:latest
```
See above for additional details on using the command **delete**.


## SEE ALSO
skopeo(1), skopeo-login(1), docker-login(1), containers-auth.json(5)

## AUTHORS

Antonio Murdaca <runcom@redhat.com>, Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>, Jhon Honce <jhonce@redhat.com>
